---
layout: post
title: Surgical Care at the District Hospital
tags: ebooks
comments: true
---

A 29 year-old man was admitted to Sekota hospital on Febuary 2, 2014 after suffering a serious injury. The man was stabbed during a violent fight and was left in a state of shock (BP 80/40mmhg and PR 126 bpm). After abdominal examination, it was concluded that he had a 2 cm by 2 cm deep wound on the subumbilical area. There was eviscerated bowel and the area was soiled with fecal content. Fortunately, it was viable (not ischemic).

After the diagnosis of the penetrating abdominal trauma, the area 2 degrees to the stab injury was eviscerated.  Meanwhile resuscitation and the baseline investigation were sent to the labotatory. The patient was taken to OR and a laparotomy was conducted. The intraoperative finding was a 1 cm by 1cm two site bowel perforation at its mesentdric border (or boarder?). The site of perforations was repaired using two layers and cleaning the peritonium. Haematocrit was 18% so one unit of blood intraoperatively and one unite post operatively was given. IV antibiotic was started after 7 days. The patient finally reached a stable condition and was discharged from hospital.


A 34 year-old woman, gravida 5 para 4, was admitted to the hospital after complaining of a pushing down sesnsation. She suffered these sensations for a duration of 2 days. [and passage of liquor 1 day duration] She has no history of an ANC follow up. After examination of the patient it was concluded that the BP was unrecordable, the pulse rate was weak and feeble, she had dry lips and buccal mucosa and a pale conjuctiva. After abdominal examination it was concluded that she had grossly distended abdomen, severe tenderness, easly palpable fetal part with abscent FHB by obstetric ultrasound. After diagnosis of the uterine rupture 2° to obstructed labor, two line iv secured and fluid resuscitation continued, catheter inserted and two unites of cross matched blood prepared , then the patient was taken to OR , laparotomy was done and finding was gross hemoperitonium, dead fetus floating in the peritonium,uterus was ruptured at its lower segment extending to left lateral.then after dead fetus and hemoperitonium was removed , total abdominal hysterectomy was done . patient totaly transfused 03 unit of blood and was covered by Iv antibiotics. the patient condition has become progressively and discharged after 7 days of hospital stay.